One thing to remember is git is not same as GitHub.
Git is a version control system and GitHub is a git repository hosting services which is built using
Git.
But GitHub has other features such as GitHub action, which does DevOps.
Git is installed locally on the system GitHub runs on the cloud.
Git is created in 2005 by Linus Torvalds, who also created Linux.
GitHub is created in 2008.
It is currently owned by Microsoft.
Git is open source and used in multiple cloud repository services, for example, GitLab, Code, Commit,
etc. GitHub is not open source, it has free and paid tiers.
Going back to the previous diagram, the implementation of this remote repository is GitHub, GitLab,
Commit, etc. For this course we are going to learn Git with GitHub because that's the most real world
practical implementation and you will get questions on your interview on Git and GitHub.
So what are some ways to use Git?
You can use Git using command line interface or CLI.
This is super important because in your interview you might be asked some particular popular commands.
You can also use Git using GUI.
We are going to go over a couple of those and also Git can be used directly from DevOps tools.
Once you know the commands and how to use command line interface, you can basically use Git anywhere.
Even within DevOps tools, you can run the commands that you're going to learn.
For our course we will use command line interface using Visual Studio code.
We will learn gooey tool called git graph for repository.
We are going to learn GitHub and we will also learn how to integrate Git with DevOps tool such as Jenkins
Oracle Generals.
Now that we understand what is Git and why we need it, let's take a look at Git workflow and history.